---
title: "1.5.1 light-4j"
date: 2017-11-02T10:35:56-04:00
description: "Customized Status Serializer and Configurable JWT token cache"
categories: ["Releases"]
slug: "1.5.1"
---

This release [1.5.1](https://github.com/networknt/light-4j/releases/tag/1.5.1) adds several enhancements. 

* [Customized Status Format][] - Give user an option to customize the output format for the 
Error Status response. You just need to implement [StatusSerializer][] and put it into 
service.yml config file to change the default behaviour. For [more details on how to use it][],
check the faq section. 

* [Make JWT token verification cache configurable][] - The JWT token in Authorization header will
be verified by security module if token verification is enabled. To speed up the signature 
verification, the framework allow you to cache the JWT token during the period it is not expired.
This is the default behaviour and it should be the case for most of the scenarios. In this release
we make this configurable so that we give users an option to turn it off. 

* [Separate integration tests from unit tests for some modules][] - Previously, we have all test
cases in src/test folder for each module and some of long running tests take a lot of time when
developer calls "mvn clean package". To increase the productivity, we now separate some of the
long running tests into src/integration folder and these will only be called when command
"mvn clean install" is called.


[StatusSerializer]: https://github.com/networknt/light-4j/blob/master/status/src/main/java/com/networknt/status/StatusSerializer.java
[Customized Status Format]: /faq/customize-status/
[Make JWT token verification cache configurable]: /concern/security/
[Separate integration tests from unit tests for some modules]: /tutorial/common/test/integration-test/
[more details on how to use it]: /faq/customize-status/
